## Comparisons

Most users will compare Symbol to one of the two major blockchain protocols: Bitcoin (a non-Turing-complete platform) or Ethereum (a <Turing-complete:> platform). It's important to understand that blockchains are *tools*, and as a developer you want to pick the right tool for the right job.

However, high-level comparisons can always be helpful for both researchers and developers. Here's how Symbol compares to both.

### Bitcoin

Bitcoin is focused on being *the best money*.

### Ethereum

Ethereum is focused on being *a global compute platform*. Its main innovation is the 'EVM' - the Ethereum Virtual Machine. [...]

However, a turing complete platform introduces unintended security risks and backdoors [...]

### Symbol

Symbol is designed to sit between Bitcoin and Ethereum - it focuses on allowing you to *plug-in* a decentralized ledger into your existing applications, and allows you to build on-chain applications with predictable behaviors and outcomes.

## Link Testing Zone

Glossary link: <XYM:>, or as markdown link:
[](XYM:), [](_:XYM)

Autoref: [XYM][]

Code refs:

* Class: <Python:symbolchain.Bip32.Bip32|Bip32>, <Python:symbolchain.facade.SymbolFacade.SymbolFacade>

* Method:
    * Python: <Python:symbolchain.facade.SymbolFacade.SymbolFacade.create_account|SymbolFacade.create_account>
    * JS: <JS:testFacade>

* With icons: `SymbolFacade.create_account` [:material-language-python:](Python:symbolchain.facade.SymbolFacade.SymbolFacade.create_account) [:material-language-javascript:](JS:testFacade) [😇](Python:symbolchain.facade.SymbolFacade.SymbolFacade.create_account)

* Dynamic link: <span markdown class="dylink"><input type="radio" name="rGroup" id="Python" /><label class="dylink-option" for="Python" markdown><Python:symbolchain.facade.SymbolFacade.SymbolFacade.create_account|SymbolFacade.create_account></label><input type="radio" name="rGroup" id="JavaScript" /><label class="dylink-option" for="JavaScript" markdown><JS:testFacade></label></span>

### URL of References to SDK

=== ":material-language-python: Python"
    `symbolchain.nem.html#symbolchain.nem.MessageEncoder.MessageEncoder.public_key`
=== ":material-language-javascript: JavaScript"
    `classes/nem.MessageEncoder.html#publickey`

### Code Snippets

=== ":material-language-python: Python"

    ```python linenums="1"
    --8<-- "sdk/python/examples/readme/symbol.py"
    ```

=== ":material-language-javascript: JavaScript"

    ```js linenums="1"
    --8<-- "sdk/javascript/examples/readme/symbol.js"
    ```

### Doc Selector

=== "NEM"

    These are the NEM docs.

=== "Symbol"

    These are the Symbol docs.
