## Accounts

Accounts are addresses on Symbol that can hold mosaics, metadata and namespaces. Every user or node on the network is defined by one (or more) accounts.

### Restrictions
### Mnemonics
### Wallets
#### Deterministic vs Hierarchical Deterministic

### Tutorial: Creating an Account

Create a random account for a network by creating a `SymbolFacade` of the desired network. For most instances, it should be created around the name of a well-known network: "mainnet" or "testnet". All examples in this guide will use `SymbolNetwork("testnet")`

!example create_random_account

example output:
```
    address: TCEVUET3MJE73F2VG6G3LRWKZN4A3DLX4WJ5XBA
 public key: D1CBF707D990A8C08C3EF68EFECF25B684934C16D9C8BE8B32D34DC511F13070
private key: 91597A3C1FD648D630FEEB339351C168D0581F46F07FA13277F26D5EE0D40283
```

Alternatively, a seed phrase can be used (or randomly generated) and used to derive accounts.

!example create_random_bip32_account

example output:
```
   mnemonic: east actual egg series spot express addict always human swallow decrease turn surround direct place burst million curious dish divorce net nephew allow height
    address: TBDSOVXFLHZWDLGSEBEE5Z5SLD2DP7P2VDXYB7Y
 public key: E2CCAD62EEBB5826042776796D26D66611EE84411C3CDF0CA5E0B4CC2FCFBE4D
private key: 984D4E4EC6AB5C772876135D88DF40F13B7B5880324A6D7F19E16DB292F8C443
```

### Tutorial: Key Derivation and Verification

:warning: what examples here?

### Tutorial: Create an Account and Fund via Faucet

!example create_account_with_tokens_from_faucet

### Tutorial: Querying the Balance of an Account

Account state can be easily queried using `/accounts/<account-id>` identifier.

**Query by address:**
```sh
curl https://${SYMBOL_API_NODE}:3001/accounts/TA4RYHMNHCFRCT2PCWOCJMWVAQ3ZCJDOTF2SGBI
```

**Query by public key:**
```sh
curl https://${SYMBOL_API_NODE}:3001/accounts/23AC0770A1060241604A8E60A47166E3E5B4034D4EE321DBE19B342E85B21544
```

Getting actual balance in a generic fashion is a bit more complicated.

First network currency id needs to be retrieved.
!example get_network_currency

Next to get currency mosaic divisibility, mosaic properties needs to be retrieved.
!example get_mosaic_properties

Finally account state can be queried and all pieces can glued together. `account.mosaics` needs to be searched for currency. Additionally amount is formatted using obtained mosaic divisibility.

!example get_account_state
!example get_account_balance


### Tutorial: Querying State of an Account (Current & Historical)

!example get_account_state

TODO: @jaguar, what else should go here, do we want to do anything re historical?

### Tutorial: Adding or Modifying (Account) Metadata

Account can have assigned metadata. Metadata is assigned to address and either can be assigned via _own_ account or via some other account.
However, to avoid spamming account metadata by third parties, `account metadata transaction` needs to always be wrapped in an aggregate (therefore it automatically requires account owner's cosignature).

Note, account metadata, as well as other kinds of metadata transactions, are designed to attach data that _might_ change in future, good examples are things like home webpage URI, avatar, etc.

There might be better ways to store (or simply encode) the data that is not expected to change.

**Assigning metadata to own account:**

!example create_account_metadata_new

**Modifying existing metadata:**

When changing/updating existing data, passed value needs to be "xor" result of old and new values, there's a helper for that
!py symbolchain.symbol.Metadata.metadata_update_value
!js symbol.metadata.metadataUpdateValue

!example create_account_metadata_modify

### Tutorial: Adding, Modifying or Removing a Cosignatory

In Symbol an account can be turned into multisig account using `multisig account modification` transaction. Modification requires cosignatures of all involved parties, so multisig account modification transactions is only allowed as an transaction within aggregate transaction.

To actually cosign transactions, private keys of cosignatories are needed. In example below, the code has access to all private keys, of course, in reality every cosignatory will need to cosign on their own.

Moreover, example below uses _simpler_ aggregate complete, when if there are different cosignatories, it would be much more convenient to use aggregate bonded transaction (TODO: explain why it's easier to cosign bonded tx)

Transaction preparation can be split into three phases:
 1. preparations of multisig account and cosignatories,
 2. transaction preparation - important part here is to sign aggregate prior to adding cosignatures,
 3. adding cosignatures - this part might look bit weird, that is because it needs to convert some of SDK types into low-level catbuffer types from `symbolchain.sc` module.

!example create_multisig_account_modification_new_account

After this transaction 2-of-3 cosignatories are required to make any transaction, same goes for removal from multisig, due to `min_removal_delta`.

Following example shows how two of cosignatories can swap third one for some other one. Additionally altering amount of cosignatories required for removal (`min_removal_delta`) - example is bit artificial, cause in effect single cosignatory can remove all others, which makes multisig account quite insecure.

!example create_multisig_account_modification_modify_account

Note, that the aggregate transaction is signed by `cosignatory[0]` key pair, but "signer" (or rather _sender_) of the modification transaction is `multisig_key_pair`.

Cosignature of a cosignatory that is added to multisig is ALWAYS required, independent of current settings of `min_approval` or `min_removal`. Reason for this is pretty straight-forward, newly added account must "agree" to actually become cosignatory.

### Tutorial: Vanity Generation and You

Addresses are produced from account's public key, exact format is described inside [technical reference](https://github.com/symbol/symbol-technicalref). It's only important to note, that address is a result of applying [one-way function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One-way_function) on public key.
Raw symbol addresses are 24-bytes long with first byte indicating network type; for display/presentation purposes raw addresses are passed through [base32](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base32) encoding.

Combining those informations, usually addresses will look random, like so: `NDR6EW2WBHJQDYMNGFX2UBZHMMZC5PGL2YCZOQQ`

There are two _vanity generators_ within symbol, which you can use to search for addresses that contain certain substring.
In general every vanity generator works by searching for random secret keys, then producing public keys, then producing addresses and matching against user supplied string.

The two vanity generators are:
 * first one that is available in [symbol/product/tools/vanity](https://github.com/symbol/product),
 * second comes with catapult client, it's called `catapult.tools.addressgen`.

Note, currently both vanity generators provide BIP-39 mnemonic which can be used in wallet apps.

1. **product/tools/vanity** - this generator is a python script, that is supposed to be called as a module:
   ```shell
   $ cd symbol/product/tools/vanity
   $ python -m vanity --blockchain symbol --network testnet --patterns HELLO --format pretty
   address (testnet): TAHELLOCN5XFWRIAWKSPPYMATZHGXTJEI52NGBQ
          public key: 77643BA9D1C7B3D05B8C6BDDDAB17BE5BADEF17E94746628ED321DE4E56D4967
         private key: 9A2FC95ACB385EEC8F7AA6DDC0BC45A36A32F904038EC988E3418858994164CB
            mnemonic: twice despair october tenant swamp second harvest lens mom violin catch response naive stomach divorce captain humble kite income ranch help bacon asthma enhance
   ```
   It can search for multiple strings at once:
   ```shell
   $ python -m vanity --blockchain symbol --network mainnet --patterns JPG,TXT,DOC --format pretty
   address (mainnet): NDDOCGCLCXT5UYOCR62KTTF5LBOGYJIQG4T7TPA
          public key: 20D84535171838BEDC663A59ABFB131668BC3226AF44DCCAC627CFC3835F5D97
         private key: 7760F90593A88A079BD650F0A2982AC8F3F08B960D47466D1D2E922D28D9B7A8
         mnemonic: vibrant february claim pact shine flash outdoor cube come menu train kick elbow vague illness lawsuit win episode motor squeeze ginger winter scrub razor

   address (mainnet): NDJPGDCSYTDKFZDBPEWT5VHJTHYH6BE27CNLOGI
          public key: A4202C89A878CA6988916AD5C12D51BDBD1CFAAF8A547E95581E1F6C6C70E667
         private key: AF30757226DBDE393AFECE48949DB17AAC77DFDCDE3D1D53F8DAB66C72D22C30
            mnemonic: tired father have permit cup tonight symptom keen churn box alien ginger one slow despair action clip stick demise segment magic steel minute harvest

   address (mainnet): NDTXTYRR4CQD2WOUDC4U37BSW4DOXK245OWDNEY
          public key: 2909CBC4031A4F6633220EF3B5E64861046807F458D580FB352981563287C03F
         private key: 4996E13DEDAB2449DE504F32C61AF0DCD5121B672B74EB440CF7FB20097FDDD2
         mnemonic: witness just change dentist congress find hurry surround smile lucky chest idea valid kick actual scale brother blind float broken twin reflect poet once
   ```
2. **catapult.tools.addressgen**, example invocation:
   ```shell
   $ ./bin/catapult.tools.addressgen --network mainnet --input HELLO
   ...
        address (mainnet): NANFMSZRRIZDHELLO77SWVRFY53KGO3EWLOEN2Q
          address decoded: 681A564B318A3233916B77FF2B5625C776A33B64B2DC46EA
               public key: C20829A3EE22A9943B8A0AB0893D699CF2D6A07716A8D1789501249C64D88B2E
              private key: 93-please-dont-use-this-its-just-for-demonstration-purposes-6410
                 mnemonic: deer grid tonight gym royal wear topple amazing message item lend tortoise    bounce carpet toward spatial camera xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx coconut
   ```
   While searching for 5 chars might finish in few minutes, search time increases expotentially with every    character. Searching for strings containing characters outside of base32 alphabet (i.e. `0`, `1`, `8`,    `9`) will never finish.

   Due to how base32 encoding works, the only availible prefixes in mainnet are `NA, NB, NC, ND`, to    search starting at the beginning of an address prefix input with a caret sign `^`:
   ```shell
   $ ./bin/catapult.tools.addressgen --network mainnet --input ^NAHELL
        address (mainnet): NAHELLACJKBYBQGQ7ZGLOOYDFWKE2ZSWB3A3HDQ
          address decoded: 680E45AC024A8380C0D0FE4CB73B032D944D66560EC1B38E
               public key: B939FF4BA0F86812A6315E0D5DA179A0FD4384CE11F291B8A02E6BE46F8EFA7A
              private key: 42-please-dont-use-this-its-just-for-demonstration-purposes-2736
                 mnemonic: man crouch imitate about carry choice idea spend nose thank merit isolate equal    raw direct spray spread xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx three
   ```
