## Namespaces

Namespaces are human-readable names for an account or a mosaic.

Similar to ENS for Ethereum, Bonafida for SOL or Namebase for Handshake, namespaces are intended to map human-readable names like "hatchet.axe" to machine-readable identifiers such as addresses, metadata, hashes, and more.

Symbol network has 3 levels of namespaces defined via `maxNamespaceDepth` in `config-network.properties`. Top level namespace is called _root_ namespace.

### Duration

Namespaces have limited duration expressed in number of blocks, defined  by root-level namespace. There are two settings defining duration settings `minNamespaceDuration`, `maxNamespaceDuration`.

TODO: explain renewal and `namespaceGracePeriodDuration`

### Fees

Similar to actual domains, namespaces require fees and renewal.
Currently cost of root namespace is 2 xym per block of duration, multiplied by dynamic fee multiplier (default = 100).
Cost of child namespace is defined by `childNamespaceRentalFee` setting in `config-network.properties`
which gets multiplied by dynamic fee multiplier (default = 100).

In 'mainnet' value of `childNamespaceRentalFee` is 10.

### Tutorial: Creating or Extending a Namespace

Namespaces besides having maximal duration, also have minimal duration, in 'mainnet' that is 30d (2880 * 30 blocks).

!example create_namespace_registration_root

Registration of root namespace generates `BalanceTransferReceipt` with type `NamespaceRentalFee`.

Child namespace:
!example create_namespace_registration_child

Registration of child namespace also generates `BalanceTransferReceipt` with type `NamespaceRentalFee`.

### Tutorial: Adding, Modifying or Querying (Namespace) Metadata

Namespaces - like accounts - can have assigned metadata (compare with [Tutorial: Adding or Modifying Metadata](#Tutorial:-Adding-or-Modifying-Metadata)).

Example below assumes signer is also owner of the namespace.

!example create_namespace_metadata_new

Modify the above metadata.
!example create_namespace_metadata_modify

Query namespace metadata:
```sh
curl https://${SYMBOL_API_NODE}:3001/metadata?targetId=D51E852A906C2DFA&scopedMetadataKey=00000000656D616E`
```
